Rules documentation improvements (#248)
python-trio/flake8-async: docs/rules.rst

List of rules
****************

.. Esp when writing short descriptions it'd be very handy to link to a glossary, instead of saying stuff like ``except BaseException/trio.Cancelled/anyio.get_cancelled_exc_class()/asyncio.exceptions.CancelledError``
   it also allows easier use of library-specific terminology without forcing people to know all libraries by heart.
   It should probably have it's own page in the long run

Glossary
========

> .. _timeout_context:
> 
> timeout context
> ---------------
> Colloquially referred to as a "Timeout" or "CancelScope". A context manager that enforces a timeout on a block of code. Trio/AnyIO timeout functions are implemented with a ``CancelScope``, but you can also directly use ``CancelScope`` as a context manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _cancel_scope:

cancel scope
------------
A cancel scope is a context manager which can request the library cancels
whatever task is executing in the body of the ``with`` (or ``async with``)
block.  A cancel scope is the key component of a timeout context, and used in
TaskGroups / Nurseries to cancel any remaining child tasks if one raises an
exception.  Trio and AnyIO have an explicit ``CancelScope`` type; in asyncio
they are implicit.

.. _timeout_context:

timeout context
---------------
A context manager that enforces a timeout on a block of code, by cancelling it
after a specified duration or at a preset time.  The timeout can also be
rescheduled after creation.
```

Author: I guess my only worry here is the rule blurb saying "don't do X in cancelscope" but it's triggering on code that doesn't mention cancelscopes. But with the glossary mentioning nurseries/taskgroups/timeouts, and detailed rules pages also doing so, we're probably fine.

--------------------------

  Handling cancellation is very sensitive, and you generally never want to catch a cancellation exception without letting it propagate to the library.

  * Trio: :class:`trio.Cancelled`. `Documentation <https://trio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/reference-core.html#cancellation-and-timeouts>`__
  * AnyIO: :func:`anyio.get_cancelled_exc_class`. `Documentation <https://anyio.readthedocs.io/en/stable/cancellation.html>`__
  * asyncio: :class:`asyncio.CancelledError`. `Documentation <https://docs.python.org/3/library/asyncio-task.html#task-cancellation>`__

General rules
=============

.. For some reason using :ref:`timeout_context` fails to find the reference, but :ref:`timeout_context <timeout_context>` works. I have no clue why

.. list-table::
   :widths: 1 18 40
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Code
     - Name
     - Message
   * - ASYNC100
     - scope-no-checkpoint
     - A :ref:`timeout_context <timeout_context>` does not contain any ``await`` statements.  This makes it pointless, as the timeout can only be triggered by a checkpoint. This check also allows ``yield`` statements, since checkpoints can happen in the caller we yield to.
   * - ASYNC101

>      - yield-in-taskgroup-or-scope
>      - ``yield`` inside a :ref:`TaskGroup/Nursery <taskgroup_nursery>` or :ref:`timeout_context <timeout_context>` is only safe when implementing a context manager - otherwise, it breaks exception handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - yield-in-cancel-scope
     - ``yield`` inside a :ref:`cancel scope <cancel_scope>` is only safe when implementing a context manager - otherwise, it breaks exception handling.  See PEP 789 for more information.
```
See https://github.com/python/peps/pull/3782 - the common feature of all of these is that they include a cancel scope, either explicitly (trio, anyio) or implicitly (asyncio).

Author: I intentionally left out any "see more" stuff, wanting these to be short blurbs and that extra info to be in the individual rules pages. The table already looks really scuffed and crammed, though that's in large part because I haven't gone for modifying the css to have wider pages and be less mobile-friendly.

   * - ASYNC102
     - await-in-finally-or-cancelled
     - ``await`` inside ``finally`` or :ref:`cancelled-catching <cancelled>` ``except:`` must have shielded cancelscope with timeout.
   * - ASYNC103
     - no-reraise-cancelled
     - :ref:`cancelled <cancelled>`-catching exception that does not reraise the exception.
   * - ASYNC104
     - cancelled-not-raised
     - :ref:`cancelled <cancelled>`-catching exception does not raise the exception. Triggered on ``return`` or raising a different exception.
   * - ASYNC105
     - missing-await

>      - async trio function called without using ``await``

Reviewer: also anyio?  Or do we need an issue for that...

Author: Was decided not to be implemented: https://github.com/python-trio/flake8-async/issues/121#issuecomment-1423964164
And I don't really think that's worth revisiting

   * - ASYNC112
     - useless-nursery
     - Nursery body with only a call to ``nursery.start[_soon]`` and not passing itself as a parameter can be replaced with a regular function call.
   * - ASYNC113
     - start-soon-in-aenter
     - Using ``nursery.start_soon`` in ``__aenter__`` doesn't wait for the task to begin. Consider replacing with ``nursery.start``.
   * - ASYNC114
     - startable-not-in-config
     - Startable function (i.e. has a ``task_status`` keyword parameter) not in ``--startable-in-context-manager`` parameter list, please add it so ASYNC113 can catch errors when using it.
   * - ASYNC115
     - sleep-zero
     - Replace ``[trio/anyio].sleep(0)`` with the more suggestive ``[trio/anyio].lowlevel.checkpoint()``.
   * - ASYNC116
     - long-sleep-not-forever
     - ``[trio/anyio].sleep()`` with >24 hour interval should usually be ``[trio/anyio].sleep_forever()``.
   * - ASYNC118
     - cancelled-class-saved
     - Don't assign the value of ``anyio.get_cancelled_exc_class()`` to a variable, since that breaks linter checks and multi-backend programs.
   * - ASYNC119
     - yield-in-cm-in-async-gen

>      - ``yield`` in context manager in async generator is unsafe, the cleanup may be delayed until ``await`` is no longer allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - ``yield`` in context manager in async generator is unsafe, the cleanup may be delayed until ``await`` is no longer allowed.  See :pep:`533`.
```

List of rules
****************

.. Esp when writing short descriptions it'd be very handy to link to a glossary, instead of saying stuff like ``except BaseException/trio.Cancelled/anyio.get_cancelled_exc_class()/asyncio.exceptions.CancelledError``
   it also allows easier use of library-specific terminology without forcing people to know all libraries by heart.
   It should probably have it's own page in the long run

General rules
=============

.. For some reason using :ref:`timeout_context` fails to find the reference, but :ref:`timeout_context <timeout_context>` works. I have no clue why

.. list-table::
   :widths: 1 18 40
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Code
     - Name
     - Message
   * - ASYNC100
     - cancel-scope-no-checkpoint
     - .. _async100:

>        A :ref:`timeout_context <timeout_context>` does not contain any :ref:`checkpoints <checkpoint>` statements.  This makes it pointless, as the timeout can only be triggered by a checkpoint. This check also allows ``yield`` statements, since checkpoints can happen in the caller we yield to.

Author: Yeah that's def easier to read, and converting let me have some fun with vim regex search&replace ^^ `:%s/\n     - \([a-z-]*$\)\@=/ :  `
(Though e.g. `async with` is a statement :stuck_out_tongue: Rephrased to not have to deal with expression vs statement)
